.TH VISDN 1 "EXPTOOLS"
.SH NAME
visdn \- Visual ISDN interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 6
.B visdn
.B \-T
.B adm-type
[
.B \-A
] [
.B \-c
.B cols
] [
.B \-f
.B file
] \\
.B \&
\p[
.B \-l
.B logfile
] [
.B \-s
.B speedfile
] [
.B \-C
] [
.B \-D
.B flag
] \\
.B \&
\p[
.B \-n
.B address
] [
.B \-r
.B rows
] [
.B \-p
.B portnum
] [
.B \-P
] \\
.B \&
\p[
.B \-t
.B settype
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I visdn
is a 630/730 terminal mouse-oriented interface to the AT&T 7506 ISDN telephone.
It allows the 630/730 terminal to augment the functionality of the 7506 set
with unlimited speed calling lists, programmable function keys,
and an interface to electronic mail on the UNIX host.
\fIThe ISDN set must have Feature Package 3 (FP3) or ProPhone installed to
use this program.\fP
See ``OTHER APPLICATIONS'' below for more information on FP3 applications.
.P
FP3 and ProPhone provide rich APIs. Part of these APIs are used by 
.I visdn
to decouple the phone's buttons from the ISDN BRI, that is, all button presses
send messages to the 630/730 where 
.I visdn 
sends appropriate commands back to the phone to effect a button press.
Losing DTR on the phone's serial port re-couples the buttons to the BRI.
.I initialize
on the 
.I visdn
menu must be used to re-initialize the phone for 
.I visdn
to work. As a caution: It is possible to lose serial
communication without losing DTR, in which case the phone does not respond to
button presses. This can be remedied by running visdn successfully (preferable),
by physically dropping DTR, (disconnecting cable, powering down 730) or by
unplugging and replugging the set on the BRI (not recommended).
.P
The phone's serial port (and the 730's associated port) should be set to 9600,
space, Enhanced AT mode, and following standard eia signals.
Don't use XON/XOFF flow control.
.P
The options are:
.P
.TP 12 3
.B "\-A"
Turns on the "send AUDIX msg" option.
.TP
.B "\-c cols"
Specify the number of \fBextra\fP feature button columns to add.
This merely pre-expands the window to accommodate more buttons;
button specifications will still cause the window to size itself automatically.
Up to 6 extra columns are possible with the 7506 type,
up to 3 extra with the 7507 type,
for a total of 9 columns.
.TP
.B "\-C"
Cache
.I visdn
in the terminal memory.
Next time you won't have to wait for it to download.
.TP
.B "\-D flag"
Set debugging options.
Not for the faint of heart.
.TP
.B "\-f file"
Specifies the data file to read button and speed calling specifications from.
See the FILE FORMAT section below for a description of this file.
Non-absolute pathnames will be treated as relative to \f(CW$HOME\fP.
The default file is \f(CW$HOME/.visdnrc\fP.
.TP
.B "\-l logfile"
All call activity will be logged in (appended to) the given file.
Lines in this file have the time and date as an integer,
a flag, the dialed number, the calling number, and the caller's name,
all separated by tab characters.
The flag is
.B c
for connections,
.B d
for disconnects,
and
.B u
for unanswered calls.
.TP
.B "\-n notify"
Specifies a mail address to mail AUDIX and other notifications to.
.TP
.B "\-p portnum"
Specifies the port that the 7506 set is connected to.
The default is port 1 (the Aux or printer port).
Currently, port 0, 1, or 2 are valid.
.TP
.B "\-P"
Pops the window to the top when a call is being received.
.TP
.B "\-r rows"
Specifies the number of extra rows for feature buttons.
The same comments apply as for the
.B \-c
option above.
Up to 3 extra rows may be requested for both 7506 and 7507 types,
for a maximum of 14 rows.
.TP
.B "\-s speedfile"
The "save query" button 3 menu item will save a permanent copy of
a directory query in this file.
.B speedfile
may be the same as the
.B \-f
file,
but does not have a default value.
.TP
.B "\-t settype"
Specifies the type of ISDN voice set.
Currently,
.B 7506
and
.B 7507
are recognized;
anything else yields a blank slate to place custom buttons on.
.B 7506
is the default type.
.TP
.B "\-T adm-type"
Specifies the type of ADM that the set uses.
Currently,
.B pro
indicates a ProPhone ADM,
and
.B fp3
indicates an ADM II Feature Package 3.
There is no default;
you must specify the ADM type on the command line.
.P
.I visdn
starts two terminal processes initially:
one to communicate with the host,
and another to serve as the visual interface to the phone.
Other windows may be created and destroyed as needed,
for example,
the help window and the call information window.
.SH PHONE WINDOW
The phone window is where most user interaction occurs.
The initial layout is determined by the
.B \-t
option,
so it will resemble a 7506 or 7507 ISDN set.
From there,
you can customize the layout by adding buttons and speed calling lists
(see the startup file description below).
At the bottom of the window is a bar that allows you to type text and send
it to the phone.
This is most useful in Directory Query mode,
where what you type is converted to digits when you press return.
.P
Mouse button 1 is used to ``press'' buttons.
The button action is effective only after the mouse button is released.
It is possible to create buttons that do nothing.
.P
Mouse button 2 handles all the speed calling lists.
You can create lists in a tree structure until you run out of terminal memory.
Go nuts.
.P
Mouse button 3 has miscellaneous functionality.
You can set some options,
redraw the screen,
exit the program,
get help,
create the call information window,
save directory queries,
and
dial people you have looked up with
.IR post (1).
Most of it is fairly intuitive,
but you have to remember that the ``save query''
item only becomes available if a valid query result is being displayed,
and ``snarf post'' is only valid if you have selected a
line with something that looks like a phone number.
.P
Experimentation is recommended.
.SH CALL INFORMATION WINDOW
The call information window is useful if you have access to the post database
on the host system.
It shows information about incoming calls,
including the person's login icon if it is available.
A ``done'' button exists for your safety and enjoyment;
use it to remove the window (don't just delete it).
.SH HELP WINDOW
Help is available on a button 2 menu for several topics.
The interface is pretty rudimentary,
but hey,
it's better than nothing!
.SH EXAMPLES
To start
.I visdn
with a 7506 set connected to the printer port,
cache the program in the terminal memory,
arrange for notification of missed calls (and possibly AUDIX messages),
and log all calls in a file,
try this:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWvisdn -C -l $HOME/visdn.log -n $LOGNAME -p 1\fP
.P
With a 7507 set connected to, say, the
.B Main2
port,
using a different startup file,
and adding 2 extra columns and 2 extra rows for feature buttons, try this:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWvisdn -C -t 7507 -p 2 -f $HOME/visdnrc.7507 -c 2 -r 2\fP
.P
.SH STARTUP FILE FORMAT
.ie t .ds TB \ \(gr\ 
.el .ds TB <tab>
Button specifications and speed calling lists may be kept in a file on the host.
Blank lines and lines starting with a pound-sign (#) are ignored.
Fields are tab separated (spaces don't count).
Tabs are represented below as \*(TB.
Other lines are assumed to be in one of the following formats:
.P
.TP 12 3
\f(CWareacode=N\fP
Specifies the local areacode for interpretation of DDN numbers.
.TP
\f(CWexchange=N1[->N2]\fP
Specifies a local exchange,
which can optionally be mapped to another prefix.
See the examples below.
.TP
\f(CWescape=escape_code\fP
Specifies an escape from centrex group code for outside calls, ie, what to
dial to get outside line.
Escape_code = '*9' at Indian Hill and '9' at the Network Software Center.
.TP
\f(CWmusic=alertstring\fP
(FP3 only)
Specifies alerting noise,
where alertstring is either a ringing pattern name
or a character string for defining music.
To specify a ringing pattern for alerting,
use the string \f(CWRingPattern\fP\fBx\fP,
where
.B x
is a digit between 1 and 7 inclusive.
To specify a tune,
see the STARTUP FILE EXAMPLES section below
and the FP3 API Manual.
If no music is specified,
the default is \f(CWRingPattern1\fP.
.TP
\f(CWbutton=R,C\*(TBname=S\fP
.TP
\f(CWbutton=R,C\*(TBname=S\*(TBvalue=V\*(TB[bind=F]\*(TB[flags...]\fP
Creates a button at the specified row and column.
An existing button at that location is replaced.
\f(CWflags\fP is one or more of
.RS
.TP
\fBautosave\fP
Automatically save Directory Query results when the button is pressed.
.TP
\fBbox\fP
Draw a box around the button.
.TP
\fBdonothing\fP
This button has no action associated with it.
Useful for putting labels on the screen.
.TP
\fBleft\fP
This button takes up the left half of the row and column location.
.TP
\fBright\fP
This button takes up the right half of the row and column location.
.TP
\fBshade\fP
Draw the button shaded.
.RE
.TP
\f(CWbutton=R,C\*(TBdelete\fP
Deletes the button at the specified row and column.
.TP
\f(CWkeypad=X,Y\fP
Place the keypad with upper left corner at location (X,Y).
X and Y are pixel offsets from the upper left corner of the window.
.TP
\f(CWspeedlist=S\*(TBname=S\*(TBvalue=V\fP
Speed call lists are accessed via the button 2 menu.
The lists are arranged hierarchically,
and may be arbitrarily nested (see STARTUP FILE EXAMPLES below).
Selecting a menu item causes the value to be treated as a feature button press.
.TP
\f(CWinclude=file\fP
Inserts the contents of the named file.
Non-absolute file names are taken to be relative to $HOME.
Included files may be nested to ``reasonable'' depths
(i.e. watch out for exceeding standard open file limits.)
.TP
\f(CWconnectseconds=N\fP
The number of seconds to wait for a connection when the '>'
character is encountered in a dial string.  Default 20.
A busy signal stops the wait immediately (in fact you might not
even hear the busy signal).
.TP
\f(CWtries=N\fP
The number of times to try dialing when the '>' character is encountered
in a dial string.  Default 1.  If 0, retries indefinitely.  Each retry is
like hitting the Redial button, so you can have a dial string which begins
with '>' (on the other hand, it will not redial a speed dial that was
programmed into the switch so use visdn speed dials instead).  Retrying can
be cancelled with the button 3 "cancel dial" menu item.  An incoming call
will also cancel retries; however, it will not cancel a dial try in
progress so you should manually drop the outgoing call before picking up
the incoming call (or wait for connectseconds to expire).
.TP
\f(CWretryseconds=N\fP
The number of seconds to wait before retrying dialing for a '>' character
in a dial string.  Default 120.
.P
\*(TB represents the tab character.
Values represented by C, F, L, N, R, S, and V above may be:
.TP 6 3
.B C
\- an integer representing the column (1-9) of the feature button.
.TP
.B F
\- a function to bind the button to.
Currently,
the functions that may be bound to buttons mirror the button 3 menu selections.
.B F
may have one of the following values:
.RS
.TP 
.B LoadButtons
Causes the startup file to be re-read.
.TP 
.B InfoWindow
Causes the Call Information window to be activated.
Button 3 confirms placement of the window if it does not exist.
.TP 
.B HelpWindow
Causes the Help Information window to be activated.
Button 3 confirms placement of the window if it does not exist.
.TP 
.B SnarfPost
If a
.IR post (1)
query line has been selected in a windowproc window,
this action causes the phone number to be extracted from the line and dialed.
Actually,
any line with a sensible phone number embedded in it will work.
Beware that the first string that looks like a phone number will be snarfed,
and sometimes it may be a department number.
It is best to select the part of the line containing the number you wish to
dial to avoid confusing the parser.
.TP 
.B Quit
Causes the r-u-sure confirmation cursor to become active.
Button 3 confirms and terminates
.I visdn.
Any other button aborts termination.
.TP 
.B Redraw
Redraws the phone screen.
.TP 
.B SaveQuery
If a Directory Query has been successful,
this button causes the query results in the display to be saved on the
``Query History'' speed calling list.
.RE
.TP
.B L
\- the number of the lamp associated with the button.
May be 2 hex digits (00-3f),
M for message lamp,
S for the speaker lamp,
U for the mute lamp,
or
X for data lamp.
.TP
.B N
\- an integer.
.TP
.B R
\- an integer representing the row (1-14) of the feature button.
.TP
.B S
\- a string value, with embedded blanks allowed.
.TP
.B V
\- a dial string.
Buttons and speed call list items must
explicitly ask for a Call Appearance (CA) in order to initiate dialing.
This is done by inserting a CA in the dial string.
Normal keypad digits are valid.
The following characters are treated specially in dialstrings:
.RS
.TP
.B ,
(comma) causes a half second pause before sending subsequent digits.
.TP
.B +
waits for secondary dialtone before sending subsequent digits.
.TP
.B >
waits for connection before sending subsequent digits.  Subject to
"connectseconds", "tries", and "retryseconds" options.
.TP
.B ;
command separator; waits for acknowledgment from set before continuing.
.RE
.P
.SH STARTUP FILE EXAMPLES
.P
To specify the 708 areacode and map several local exchanges for 5-digit dialing:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWareacode=708\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWexchange=713->3\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWexchange=979->9\fP
.P
To select personalized ringing pattern 5, use this:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWmusic=RingPattern5\fP
.P
To have your set chirp instead of ring, try this:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWmusic=L32T120o2dcdcdcdcdcdcdcdcdcdcp1\fP
.P
To change the label on an existing button:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=5,6\*(TBname=new name\fP
.P
To delete a button at row 7 column 7:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=7,7\*(TBdelete\fP
.P
To create a button that grabs a line and dials a number:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=4,5\*(TBname=HOME\*(TBvalue=CA*9,5551212\*(TBbox\fP
.P
To add 3 items to a speed call list:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWspeedlist=my group\*(TBname=XXX\*(TBvalue=CA93333\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWspeedlist=my group\*(TBname=YYY\*(TBvalue=CA93334\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWspeedlist=my group\*(TBname=ZZZ\*(TBvalue=CA93335\fP
.P
A department with 3 groups might have several speed call lists,
organized by group:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWspeedlist=my dept/grp1\*(TBname=AAA\*(TBvalue=CA93333\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWspeedlist=my dept/grp1\*(TBname=BBB\*(TBvalue=CA93334\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWspeedlist=my dept/grp2\*(TBname=CCC\*(TBvalue=CA93335\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWspeedlist=my dept/grp3\*(TBname=XXX\*(TBvalue=CA93336\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWspeedlist=my dept/grp3\*(TBname=YYY\*(TBvalue=CA93337\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWspeedlist=my dept/grp3\*(TBname=ZZZ\*(TBvalue=CA93338\fP
.P
To create a totally custom layout, run
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWvisdn -t brandx\fP
.P
An example ``brandx'' layout might be:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=1,1\*(TBname=34976\*(TBvalue=a\*(TBbox\*(TBlamp=01\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=2,1\*(TBname=34976\*(TBvalue=b\*(TBbox\*(TBlamp=02\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=3,1\*(TBname=34976\*(TBvalue=c\*(TBbox\*(TBlamp=03\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=5,1\*(TBname=Speaker\*(TBvalue=SP\*(TBbox\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWkeypad=150,100\fP
.P
Some dialstring examples:
.P
An outside number requiring secondary dialtone:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=4,3\*(TBname=HOME\*(TBvalue=CA*9+1234567\fP
.P
Dial Audix, wait for answer, pause 1/2 second, and send login sequence:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=5,3\*(TBname=AUDIX\*(TBvalue=CA36001>,#12345#\fP
.P
Dial a hotline number, wait for connect, then interact with advanced 800
services:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=6,3\*(TBname=HOTLINE\*(TBvalue=CA*9+18001234567>,1,,2\fP
.P
Wait 15 seconds for a connect with '>', redial indefinitely, wait 30
seconds between retries, and define the Redial button to retry:
.ti +5
\f(CWconnectseconds=15\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWtries=0\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWretryseconds=30\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=7,3\*(TBname=REDIAL\*(TBvalue=>\fP\*(TBbox\fP
.SH LOG FILE FORMAT
The
.B \-l
option can be used to specify a file to log all calls in.
Each line in this file has the following format:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWtime\*(TBflag\*(TBcalled-number\*(TBcalling-number\*(TBcalling-name\fP
.P
where
.TP 14 3
.B time
is the numeric representation of the time that the event occurred,
.TP
.B flag
indicates what the record type is:
.B c
for a connected (answered) call,
.B d
when a call disconnects,
or
.B u
for an unanswered call,
.TP
.B called-number
is the display version of the number you dialed,
.TP
.B calling-number
is the number (if known) of the person calling you,
.TP
.B calling-name
is the displayed name (if known) of the person calling you.
.P
This information is simply appended to the specified file indefinitely.
It remains to be seen what use can be made of it.
.SH FILES
\f(CW$HOME/.visdnrc\fP \- default initialization file
.br
\f(CW$TOOLS/lib/visdn/visdn.help\fP \- help database
.br
\f(CW$TOOLS/lib/visdn/visdnrc.750[67]\fP \- sample startup files for 7506/7507
.br
\f(CW$TOOLS/lib/630/visdn.m\fP \- downloadable program
.SH SEE ALSO
Stevens, I. C., ``ProPhone User's Manual, Issue 4.0,'' January 25, 1991, DRAFT.
.P
CIC phone number for documentation--800 432 6600.
.P
Most useful:
.P
"Integrated Services Digital Network Application Programming Interface Programmer's Reference Manual", 533-705-200.
.P
Related information:
.P
"ISDN Asynchronous Data Module Feature Package 3 User's Manual", 555-021-729.
.P
"ISDN Asynchronous Data Module Feature Package 3 PC Applications User's Guide", 555-021-734.
.P
"ISDN 7505 Modular Terminal and ISDN 7506 Display Terminal User's Manual", 555-021-731.
.P
"ISDN 7507 Display Terminal User's Manual", 555-021-732.
.P
"Technical Reference--AT&T ISDN Basic Rate Interface Specification", 801-802-100.
.P
"5ESS Switch--ISDN Basic Rate Interface Specification", 235-900-321.
.P
"5ESS Switch ISDN Features", 235-190-105.
.P
"Audix Reference Manual", 585-300-201.
.P
The D-kit enables one to upgrade a 7506/7507 to FP3. This D-kit
is a new mother board with an upgraded processor, more memory, and the new
FP3 firmware.
.SH ORDERING INFORMATION
.TS
l l l l.
7506   Black  7506TAD03A-003  106635998
7506   Misty Cream    7506TAD03A-215  106636004
7507   Black  7507TAD03A-003  1066636061
7507   Misty Cream    7507TAD03A-215  106636087
D-Kit D-182603        106614209
.TE
.SH OTHER FP3 APPLICATIONS
.P
The editor of a newsletter on the FP3 API is at api@hocpb.att.com.
.P
Other FP3 applications at this time follow:
.P
ExcellTech's ExcellNET, ICLID, and XLDIAL, (605) 665 5811.
.P
Provides file and printer sharing, mail, auto-dialing voice and data calls,
and a NETBIOS interface to FP-3.
.P
Groupware Authors' Face to Face, (408) 426 3991.
.P
Provides screen sharing with annotating for Windows and Macintosh users.
.P
Link Technology's INFOPartner, (215) 357 3354.
.P
Provides hooks to existing applications to use ICLID.
.P
ManyLink's ManyLink and Call-Pop, (206) 881 5060.
.P
ManyLink provides file and printer sharing, custom API interface.
Call-Pop searches a dbaseIV file for a record associated with ICLID
and displays it.
.P
Southern New England Telephone's SIMS, (203) 771 7661.
.P
Provides inbound call management with data retrieval based on ICLID,
visual alerting, and traffic statistics.
.P
Structured Information's ViewMate, (908) 842 9553.
.P
Windows application that links existing applications with ICLID. It can
start applications based on ICLID or execute options within
an application based on ICLID.
.P
AT&T's E911 PSAP, (708) 224 4387.
.P
This allows E911 Public Safety Answering Position (PSAP) to see who is calling
and to transfer to the proper emergency service. This is easier to expand
than conventional analog PSAP.
.SH BUGS
Using the ';' character in .visdnrc files to wait for ack on commands
is not working.
.P
Using the '+' character in .visdnrc files to wait for dial tone is not working.
Sufficient delays with '~' should work.
.P
.I save query
needs the result from a 5ESS directory query in a particular
format; not all entrys can be saved.
.P
The window connected to the ISDN phone currently isn't automatically deleted on exit;
the button 3 exit menu item must be used.
.P
Deleting any of the individual windows created by
.I visdn
via means external to
.I visdn
voids any warranties about terminal behavior thereafter.
In other words,
if you use the 630/730 button 3 ``delete'' item on any of these windows,
you're on your own.
.SH AUTHOR
Alan Hastings
.br
Doug Rippe
.br
Dave Dykstra
.br
Eric Claeys
.SH PROVIDER
Eric Claeys
