h54466
s 00516/00000/00000
d D 1.1 92/07/23 13:51:50 trl 1 0
c date and time created 92/07/23 13:51:50 by trl
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.TH VISDN 1 "EXPTOOLS"
.SH NAME
visdn \- Visual ISDN interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 6
.B visdn
[
.B \-A
] [
.B \-c
.B cols
] [
.B \-f
.B file
] [
.B \-l
.B logfile
] \\
.B \&
\p[
.B \-s
.B speedfile
] [
.B \-C
] [
.B \-D
.B flag
] [
.B \-n
.B address
] \\
.B \&
\p[
.B \-r
.B rows
] [
.B \-p
.B portnum
] [
.B \-P
] [
.B \-t
.B settype
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I visdn
is a 630/730 terminal mouse-oriented interface to the AT&T 7506 ISDN telephone.
It allows the 630/730 terminal to augment the functionality of the 7506 set
with unlimited speed calling lists, programmable function keys,
and an interface to electronic mail on the UNIX host.
Special firmware in the 7506/7507 set is required in order to run this tool.
The options are:
.P
.TP 12 3
.B "\-A"
Turns on the "send AUDIX msg" option.
.TP
.B "\-c cols"
Specify the number of \fBextra\fP feature button columns to add.
This merely pre-expands the window to accommodate more buttons;
button specifications will still cause the window to size itself automatically.
Up to 6 extra columns are possible with the 7506 type,
up to 3 extra with the 7507 type,
for a total of 9 columns.
.TP
.B "\-C"
Cache
.I visdn
in the terminal memory.
Next time you won't have to wait for it to download.
.TP
.B "\-D flag"
Set debugging options.
Not for the faint of heart.
.TP
.B "\-f file"
Specifies the data file to read button and speed calling specifications from.
See the FILE FORMAT section below for a description of this file.
Non-absolute pathnames will be treated as relative to \f(CW$HOME\fP.
The default file is \f(CW$HOME/.visdnrc\fP.
.TP
.B "\-l logfile"
All call activity will be logged in (appended to) the given file.
Lines in this file have the time and date as an integer,
a flag, the dialed number, the calling number, and the caller's name,
all separated by tab characters.
The flag is
.B c
for connections,
.B d
for disconnects,
and
.B u
for unanswered calls.
.TP
.B "\-n notify"
Specifies a mail address to mail AUDIX and other notifications to.
.TP
.B "\-p portnum"
Specifies the port that the 7506 set is connected to.
The default is port 1 (the Aux or printer port).
Currently, port 0, 1, or 2 are valid.
.TP
.B "\-P"
Pops the window to the top when a call is being received.
.TP
.B "\-r rows"
Specifies the number of extra rows for feature buttons.
The same comments apply as for the
.B \-c
option above.
Up to 3 extra rows may be requested for both 7506 and 7507 types,
for a maximum of 14 rows.
.TP
.B "\-s speedfile"
The "save query" button 3 menu item will save a permanent copy of the
speed call in this file.
.B speedfile
may be the same as the
.B \-f
file,
but does not have a default value.
.TP
.B "\-t settype"
Specifies the type of ISDN voice set.
Currently,
.B 7506
and
.B 7507
are recognized;
anything else yields a blank slate to place custom buttons on.
.B 7506
is the default type.
.P
.I visdn
starts two terminal processes initially:
one to communicate with the host,
and another to serve as the visual interface to the phone.
Other windows may be created and destroyed as needed,
for example,
the help window and the call information window.
The host communication window is the original window that
.I visdn
is started in;
it is the window which will remain when the program terminates.
No user interaction is meaningful in this window,
and it normally stays in the background.
Enough said.
.SH PHONE WINDOW
The phone window is where most user interaction occurs.
The initial layout is determined by the
.B \-t
option,
so it will resemble a 7506 or 7507 ISDN set.
From there,
you can customize the layout by adding buttons and speed calling lists
(see the startup file description below).
At the bottom of the window is a bar that allows you to type text and send
it to the phone.
This is most useful in Directory Query mode,
where what you type is converted to digits when you press return.
.P
Mouse button 1 is used to ``press'' buttons.
The button action is effective only after the mouse button is released.
It is possible to create buttons that do nothing.
.P
Mouse button 2 handles all the speed calling lists.
You can create lists in a tree structure until you run out of terminal memory.
Go nuts.
.P
Mouse button 3 has miscellaneous functionality.
You can set some options,
redraw the screen,
exit the program,
get help,
create the call information window,
save directory queries,
and
dial people you have looked up with
.IR post (1).
Most of it is fairly intuitive,
but you have to remember that the ``save query''
item only becomes available if a valid query result is being displayed,
and ``snarf post'' is only valid if you have properly selected a post
query line.
.P
Experimentation is recommended.
.SH CALL INFORMATION WINDOW
The call information window is useful if you have access to the post database
on the host system.
It shows information about incoming calls,
including the person's login icon if it is available.
A ``done'' button exists for your safety and enjoyment;
use it to remove the window (don't just delete it).
.SH HELP WINDOW
Help is available on a button 2 menu for several topics.
The interface is pretty rudimentary,
but hey,
it's better than nothing!
.SH EXAMPLES
To start
.I visdn
with a 7506 set connected to the printer port,
cache the program in the terminal memory,
arrange for notification of missed calls (and possibly AUDIX messages),
and log all calls in a file,
try this:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWvisdn -C -l $HOME/visdn.log -n $LOGNAME -p 1\fP
.P
With a 7507 set connected to, say, the
.B Main2
port,
using a different startup file,
and adding 2 extra columns and 2 extra rows for feature buttons, try this:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWvisdn -C -t 7507 -p 2 -f $HOME/visdnrc.7507 -c 2 -r 2\fP
.P
.SH STARTUP FILE FORMAT
.ie t .ds TB \ \(gr\ 
.el .ds TB <tab>
Button specifications and speed calling lists may be kept in a file on the host.
Blank lines and lines starting with a pound-sign (#) are ignored.
Fields are tab separated (spaces don't count).
Tabs are represented below as \*(TB.
Other lines are assumed to be in one of the following formats:
.P
.TP 12 3
\f(CWareacode=N\fP
Specifies the local areacode for interpretation of DDN numbers.
.TP
\f(CWexchange=N1[->N2]\fP
Specifies a local exchange,
which can optionally be mapped to another prefix.
See the examples below.
.TP
\f(CWbutton=R,C\*(TBname=S\fP
.TP
\f(CWbutton=R,C\*(TBname=S\*(TBvalue=V\*(TB[bind=F]\*(TB[flags...]\fP
Creates a button at the specified row and column.
An existing button at that location is replaced.
\f(CWflags\fP is one or more of
.RS
.TP
\fBautosave\fP
Automatically save Directory Query results when the button is pressed.
.TP
\fBbox\fP
Draw a box around the button.
.TP
\fBdonothing\fP
This button has no action associated with it.
Useful for putting labels on the screen.
.TP
\fBleft\fP
This button takes up the left half of the row and column location.
.TP
\fBright\fP
This button takes up the right half of the row and column location.
.TP
\fBshade\fP
Draw the button shaded.
.RE
.TP
\f(CWbutton=R,C\*(TBdelete\fP
Deletes the button at the specified row and column.
.TP
\f(CWkeypad=X,Y\fP
Place the keypad with upper left corner at location (X,Y).
X and Y are pixel offsets from the upper left corner of the window.
.TP
\f(CWspeedlist=S\*(TBname=S\*(TBvalue=V\fP
Speed call lists are accessed via the button 2 menu.
The lists are arranged heirarchically,
and may be arbitrarily nested (see STARTUP FILE EXAMPLES below).
Selecting a menu item causes the value to be treated as a feature button press.
.TP
\f(CWinclude=file\fP
Inserts the contents of the named file.
Non-absolute file names are taken to be relative to $HOME.
Included files may be nested to ``reasonable'' depths
(i.e. watch out for exceeding standard open file limits.)
.P
\*(TB represents the tab character.
Values represented by C, L, R, S, and V above may be:
.TP 6 3
.B C
\- an integer representing the column (1-9) of the feature button.
.TP
.B F
\- a function to bind the button to.
Currently,
the functions that may be bound to buttons mirror the button 3 menu selections.
.B F
may have one of the following values:
.RS
.TP 
.B LoadButtons
Causes the startup file to be re-read.
.TP 
.B InfoWindow
Causes the Call Information window to be activated.
Button 3 confirms placement of the window if it does not exist.
.TP 
.B HelpWindow
Causes the Help Information window to be activated.
Button 3 confirms placement of the window if it does not exist.
.TP 
.B SnarfPost
If a
.IR post (1)
query line has been selected in a windowproc window,
this action causes the phone number to be extracted from the line and dialed.
The entire post query line must be selected.
.TP 
.B Quit
Causes the r-u-sure confirmation cursor to become active.
Button 3 confirms and terminates
.I visdn.
Any other button aborts termination.
.TP 
.B Redraw
Redraws the phone screen.
.TP 
.B SaveQuery
If a Directory Query has been successful,
this button causes the query results in the display to be saved on the
``Query History'' speed calling list.
.RE
.TP
.B L
\- the number of the lamp associated with the button.
May be 2 hex digits (00-3f),
M for message lamp,
S for the speaker lamp,
U for the mute lamp,
or
X for data lamp.
.TP
.B R
\- an integer representing the row (1-14) of the feature button.
.TP
.B S
\- a string value, with embedded blanks allowed.
.TP
.B V
\- a dial string.
Buttons and speed call list items must
explicitly ask for a Call Appearance (CA) in order to initiate dialing.
This is done by inserting a CA in the dial string.
Normal keypad digits are valid.
The following characters are treated specially in dialstrings:
.RS
.TP
.B ,
(comma) causes a half second pause before sending subsequent digits.
.TP
.B +
waits for secondary dialtone before sending subsequent digits.
.TP
.B >
waits for connection before sending subsequent digits.
.TP
.B ;
command separator; waits for acknowledgment from set before continuing.
.RE
.P
.SH STARTUP FILE EXAMPLES
.P
To specify the 708 areacode and map several local exchanges for 5-digit dialing:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWareacode=708\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWexchange=713->3\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWexchange=979->9\fP
.P
To change the label on an existing button:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=5,6\*(TBname=new name\fP
.P
To delete a button at row 7 column 7:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=7,7\*(TBdelete\fP
.P
To create a button that grabs a line and dials a number:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=4,5\*(TBname=HOME\*(TBvalue=CA*9,5551212\*(TBbox\fP
.P
To add 3 items to a speed call list:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWspeedlist=my group\*(TBname=XXX\*(TBvalue=CA93333\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWspeedlist=my group\*(TBname=YYY\*(TBvalue=CA93334\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWspeedlist=my group\*(TBname=ZZZ\*(TBvalue=CA93335\fP
.P
A department with 3 groups might have several speed call lists,
organized by group:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWspeedlist=my dept/grp1\*(TBname=AAA\*(TBvalue=CA93333\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWspeedlist=my dept/grp1\*(TBname=BBB\*(TBvalue=CA93334\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWspeedlist=my dept/grp2\*(TBname=CCC\*(TBvalue=CA93335\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWspeedlist=my dept/grp3\*(TBname=XXX\*(TBvalue=CA93336\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWspeedlist=my dept/grp3\*(TBname=YYY\*(TBvalue=CA93337\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWspeedlist=my dept/grp3\*(TBname=ZZZ\*(TBvalue=CA93338\fP
.P
To create a totally custom layout, run
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWvisdn -t brandx\fP
.P
An example ``brandx'' layout might be:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=1,1\*(TBname=34976\*(TBvalue=a\*(TBbox\*(TBlamp=01\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=2,1\*(TBname=34976\*(TBvalue=b\*(TBbox\*(TBlamp=02\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=3,1\*(TBname=34976\*(TBvalue=c\*(TBbox\*(TBlamp=03\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=5,1\*(TBname=Speaker\*(TBvalue=SP\*(TBbox\fP
.ti +5
\f(CWkeypad=150,100\fP
.P
Some dialstring examples:
.P
An outside number requiring secondary dialtone:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=4,3\*(TBname=HOME\*(TBvalue=CA*9+1234567\fP
.P
Dial Audix, wait for answer, pause 1/2 second, and send login sequence:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=5,3\*(TBname=AUDIX\*(TBvalue=CA36001>,#12345#\fP
.P
Dial a hotline number, wait for connect, then interact with advanced 800
services:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWbutton=6,3\*(TBname=HOTLINE\*(TBvalue=CA*9+18001234567>,1,,2\fP
.SH LOG FILE FORMAT
The
.B \-l
option can be used to specify a file to log all calls in.
Each line in this file has the following format:
.P
.ti +5
\f(CWtime\*(TBflag\*(TBcalled-number\*(TBcalling-number\*(TBcalling-name\fP
.P
where
.TP 14 3
.B time
is the numeric representation of the time that the event occured,
.TP
.B flag
indicates what the record type is:
.B c
for a connected (answered) call,
.B d
when a call disconnects,
or
.B u
for an unanswered call,
.TP
.B called-number
is the display version of the number you dialed,
.TP
.B calling-number
is the number (if known) of the person calling you,
.TP
.B calling-name
is the displayed name (if known) of the person calling you.
.P
This information is simply appended to the specified file indefinitely.
It remains to be seen what use can be made of it.
.SH FILES
\f(CW$HOME/.visdnrc\fP \- default initialization file
.br
\f(CW$TOOLS/lib/visdn/visdn.help\fP \- help database
.br
\f(CW$TOOLS/lib/630/visdn.m\fP \- downloadable program
.SH SEE ALSO
Stevens, I. C., ``ProPhone User's Manual, Issue 4.0,'' January 25, 1991, DRAFT.
.SH BUGS
Full 7506/7507 functionality is not supported by the
.I Hayes
protocol,
so
.I visdn
cannot fully emulate these ISDN phones.
.P
Deleting any of the individual windows created by
.I visdn
via means external to
.I visdn
voids any warrantees about terminal behavior thereafter.
In other words,
if you use the 630/730 button 3 ``delete'' item on any of these windows,
you're on your own.
.SH PROVIDER
Alan Hastings
E 1
